Description of the new images property in batch workflows (#431)
neuro-inc/neuro-flow: reference/batch-workflow-syntax.md

**Expression contexts:** [`flow` context](batch-contexts.md#flow-context), [`params` context](batch-contexts.md#params-context), [`env` context](batch-contexts.md#env-context), [`tags` context](batch-contexts.md#tags-context), [`volumes` context](batch-contexts.md#volumes-context), [`images` context](batch-contexts.md#images-context).

## `images`

A mapping of image definitions used by the _batch_ workflow.

> `neuro-flow build <image-id>` creates an image from the passed `Dockerfile` and uploads it to the Neu.ro Registry. The `${{ images.img_id.ref }}` expression can be used for pointing the image from a [`tasks.image`](batch-workflow-syntax.md#tasks-image).

Reviewer: Sorry, this is not correct. This is how it works for live mode, in batch mode building happens automatically during bake progress.

Author: Updated in the most recent commit.

**Example of a self-hosted image:**

```yaml
images:
  my_image:
    ref: image:my_image:latest
```

This can only use locally accessible functions (such as `hash_files`). Its value will be calculated before the remote executor starts.

**Example of external image:**

```yaml
images:
  python:
    ref: python:3.9.0
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Use the embedded [`hash_files()`](expression-functions.md#hash_files-pattern) function to generate the built image's tag based on its content.
{% endhint %}

**Example of an auto-calculated stable hash:**

```yaml
images:
  my_image:
    ref: image:my_image:${{ hash_files('Dockerfile', 'requirements/*.txt', 'modules/**/*.py') }}
```

**Expression contexts:** [`flow` context](batch-contexts.md#flow-context).

### `images.<image-id>.context`

The Docker _context_ used to build an image. Can be either local path (e.g. ${{ flow.workspace / 'some/dir' }}) or a remote volume spec (e.g. storage:subdir/${{ inputs.path_on_storage }}). 
If it's a local path, it cannot use anything that's not available at the beginning of a bake (for example, action inputs). 

> If it's a remote path, usage of dynamic values is allowed. Local context should be automatically uploaded to storage during the "local actions" step of the bake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it's a remote path, usage of dynamic values is allowed. Local context will be automatically uploaded to storage during the "local actions" step of the bake.
```

**Example:**

```yaml
images:
  my_image:
    context: path/to/context
```

{% hint style="info" %}
`neuro-flow` cannot build images without the context, but can address _pre-built_ images using [`images.<image-id>.ref`](batch-workflow-syntax.md#images-less-than-image-id-greater-than-ref)
{% endhint %}

**Expression contexts:** [`flow` context](batch-contexts.md#flow-context).

### `images.<image-id>.dockerfile`

An optional Docker file name used for building images, `Dockerfile` by default.

> Works almost the same as `.context` - if it's a local path, dynamic values are forbidden and it's automatically uploaded. If it's a remote path, then dynamic values are allowed.

Reviewer: Please replace ``` `.context\` ``` with link.

Author: Replaced in the most recent push.

**Expression contexts:** [`flow` context](batch-contexts.md#flow-context), [`params` context](batch-contexts.md#params-context), [`env` context](batch-contexts.md#env-context), [`tags` context](batch-contexts.md#tags-context), [`volumes` context](batch-contexts.md#volumes-context), [`images` context](batch-contexts.md#images-context).

## `images`

A mapping of image definitions used by the _batch_ workflow.

If the specified image reference is available at the Neu.ro registry and the [`.force_rebuild`](batch-workflow-syntax.md#images-less-than-image-id-greater-than-force-rebuild) flag is not set, then Neu.ro Flow starts building the image from scratch. 

> If this flag is set, then the existing image from the registry will be used.

Reviewer: Sorry, this is a little bit wrong.
If an image is not neuro registry image (ref doesn't start from `image:`) - the system will try to use ref as is.
If the flag is not set **and** image in registry - no build.
If the flag is set **or** image not in registry - build will happen.

Author: Fixed in the recent commit

{% hint style="info" %}
The `images` section is not required. A task can specify the image name in a plain string without referring to the `${{ images.my_image.ref }}` context.

> However, this section exists for convenience: there is no need to repeat yourself if you can just point the image reference everywhere in the YAML.

Reviewer: This block adds new functionality (in batch mode), so I'm not sure about this.

Author: Fixed in the recent commit

{% endhint %}

### `images.<image-id>`

> The key `image-id` is a string and its value is a map of a bake's configuration data. You must replace `<image-id>` with a string that is unique to the `images` object. `<image-id>` must start with a letter and contain only alphanumeric characters or underscore symbols `_`. Dash `-` is not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key `image-id` is a string and its value is a map of an image's configuration data. You must replace `<image-id>` with a string that is unique to the `images` object. `<image-id>` must start with a letter and contain only alphanumeric characters or underscore symbols `_`. Dash `-` is not allowed.
```

### `images.<image-id>.ref`

**Required** Image _reference_ that can be used in the [`tasks.image`](batch-workflow-syntax.md#tasks-image) expression.

**Example of a self-hosted image:**

```yaml
images:
  my_image:
    ref: image:my_image:latest
```

This can only use locally accessible functions (such as `hash_files`). Its value will be calculated before the remote executor starts.

**Example of external image:**

```yaml
images:
  python:
    ref: python:3.9.0
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Use the embedded [`hash_files()`](expression-functions.md#hash_files-pattern) function to generate the built image's tag based on its content.
{% endhint %}

**Example of an auto-calculated stable hash:**

```yaml
images:
  my_image:
    ref: image:my_image:${{ hash_files('Dockerfile', 'requirements/*.txt', 'modules/**/*.py') }}
```

**Expression contexts:** [`flow` context](batch-contexts.md#flow-context).

### `images.<image-id>.context`

> The Docker _context_ used to build an image. Can be either local path (e.g. ${{ flow.workspace / 'some/dir' }}) or a remote volume spec (e.g. storage:subdir/${{ inputs.path_on_storage }}). 

Reviewer: `inputs` context is only available in actions, so it can be confusing to use it in example for batch workflow.
```suggestion
The Docker _context_ used to build an image. Can be either local path (e.g. ${{ flow.workspace / 'some/dir' }}) or a remote volume spec (e.g. storage:subdir/${{ flow.flow_id }}). 
```
